Add Rancher Security Best Practices section (#902)
rancher/rancher-docs: docs/reference-guides/rancher-security/rancher-security-best-practices.md

---
title: Rancher Security Best Practices
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/reference-guides/rancher-security/rancher-security-best-practices"/>
</head>

### Restricting public access to /version path

> It is well-known that attackers might want to gather any information related to services running online. When running a Rancher server, the `/version` path can disclose some information about the server. We know that this path can be commonly used to monitor uptime from the service or any other monitoring metrics. In this case, we recommend customers block the `/version` path at the infrastructure level, through Firewall rules, keeping it accessible only for monitoring tools or intranet.

Reviewer: Here's some suggestions on further detailing the issue and the mitigation:

```suggestion
The Rancher Manager server provides information about the version it is running and the Go version that was used to built it. That information is accessible via the `/version` path, and is generally used to automate version bumps, confirm a deployment was successful, amongst other things.

Such information can be used by adversaries to identify the running version and cross relate it with potential bugs that it may have. In cases where the Rancher server is publicly available through the internet, it is recommended that the path `/version` be blocked by using a Layer 7 firewall.
```

Feel free to amend it or drop parts of it.

> Further references: OWASP Web Application Security Testing - [Enumerate Infrastructure and Application Admin Interfaces](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/stable/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/05-Enumerate_Infrastructure_and_Application_Admin_Interfaces.html).

Reviewer 2: We could also add some references too https://github.com/rancher/rancher/pull/38445 and/or https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/84040 for adding context to this decision.

---
title: Rancher Security Best Practices
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/reference-guides/rancher-security/rancher-security-best-practices"/>
</head>

> ### Restrict Public Access to /version and /rancherversion path

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Restrict Public Access to /version and /rancherversion Path
```

The upstream (local) Rancher instance provides information about the Rancher version it is running and the Go version that was used to built it. That information is accessible via the `/version` path, which is used for tasks such as automating version bumps, or confirming that a deployment was successful. The upstream instance also provides Rancher version information accessible via the `/rancherversion` path.

Adversaries can misuse this information to identify the running Rancher version and cross-relate it with potential bugs to exploit. If your upstream Rancher instance is publicly available on the web, use a Layer 7 firewall to block `/version` and `/rancherversion`.

> Further references: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Rancher Security Best Practices
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/reference-guides/rancher-security/rancher-security-best-practices"/>
</head>

### Restrict public access to /version and /rancherversion path

> The Rancher Manager server provides information about the version it is running and the Go version that was used to built it. That information is accessible via the `/version` path, and is generally used to automate version bumps, confirm a deployment was successful, amongst other things. The server also provides Rancher Manager version information accessible via the `/rancherversion` path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The upstream (local) Rancher instance provides information about the Rancher version it is running and the Go version that was used to built it. That information is accessible via the `/version` path, which is used for tasks such as automating version bumps, or confirming that a deployment was successful. The upstream instance also provides Rancher version information accessible via the `/rancherversion` path.
```

"Rancher Manager" isn't used in public-facing docs anymore

> Such information can be used by adversaries to identify the running version and cross relate it with potential bugs that it may have. In cases where the Rancher server is publicly available through the internet, it is recommended that the path `/version` and `/rancherversion` be blocked by using a Layer 7 firewall.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adversaries can misuse this information to identify the running Rancher version and cross-relate it with potential bugs to exploit. If your upstream Rancher instance is publicly available on the web , use a Layer 7 firewall to block `/version` and `/rancherversion`.
```

> Such informations can be used by adversaries to identify the running version and cross relate it with potential bugs that it may have. In cases where the Rancher server is publicly available through the internet, it is recommended that the path `/version` and `/rancherversion` be blocked by using a Layer 7 firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such information can be used by adversaries to identify the running version and cross relate it with potential bugs that it may have. In cases where the Rancher server is publicly available through the internet, it is recommended that the path `/version` and `/rancherversion` be blocked by using a Layer 7 firewall.
```

> Further references: 
> - OWASP Web Application Security Testing - [Enumerate Infrastructure and Application Admin Interfaces](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/stable/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/05-Enumerate_Infrastructure_and_Application_Admin_Interfaces.html).
> - [Expose `/rancherversion` endpoint](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/pull/38445)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See [OWASP Web Application Security Testing - Enumerate Infrastructure and Application Admin Interfaces](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/stable/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/05-Enumerate_Infrastructure_and_Application_Admin_Interfaces.html) for more information on protecting your server.
```
